+++

date = "2014-07-04T01:00:00Z"
title = "June"

+++

Dear friends,
The school year has ended. Students had final examinations last week, and we are on summer break until mid-September. The director and his wife, Dan and Laura Fuller, are going to the States for the summer on Monday. This means we are left here mostly by ourselves. It’s both scary and exciting thinking about being alone, but we are never really alone, for our God has brought us here, and He will never leave us, nor forsake us.
I would like to describe the school a little bit. There is a two-story Administration building with a little library and two classrooms; two-story girls and boys dormitories, each with a classroom in the lower level; a cafeteria; and three houses for staff to live in. We live in the biggest house, but it is too big for us and we will probably move into one of the others once Steven fixes it up and makes it liveable. The house we would move into needs counters in the kitchen, all the fixtures mounted in the bathroom, a porch on the back, and shutters for the windows. Up the mountain from the buildings there is a big garden area. They have many things planted, from bananas and papayas to green beans and okra. Some things don’t grow very well, like tomatoes. The garden should produce enough next year that they can feed the students mostly on things grown here. In previous years the school has had to buy food and fly it in from Georgetown. That is very expensive to do – the plane costs just over $300 to fly and can only carry 800lbs. We are starting to put in a garden next to our house so we don’t have to import much food either.
This last school year the school taught three grades, called Form 1, Form 2, and Form 3. This is about like 7th grade, 8th grade, and 9th grade. There were around 25 kids in Form 1, 5 in Form 2, and 15 in Form 3. Next year the Form 3 kids will be in Form 4. School will go up to Form 5, then kids graduate and either take a test called the CXC (like our GED test, but much harder – it goes all the way through A&P, Calculus, Statistics, and advanced English) and go on to university, or they go back home and work on their farms.
Alice taught a Form 1 Spelling/Vocabulary class, and Steven taught two Form 1 Math classes and a Form 1 Bible class. We had a hard time adjusting to teaching here. The kids don’t have textbooks, so everything has to be written on our chalkboards for them. We hope to get textbooks for each student, but they are expensive, costing about $30 per book. Most of the textbooks can cover all years at this school for one subject, but it is still expensive to buy them. We found that most of the kids don’t have books at home. So they have a hard time forming good sentences or creating stories that make sense. We would really like to get the students something like a Kindle that they could have their textbooks on. There are lots of free books that they could practice reading with, and Steven has a math curriculum that is digital(and free).
The people here are so friendly. Steven and Grant took a walk to the village a couple days ago, and many people called greetings to them by name as they passed the people’s houses. We are certainly the whitest and some of the tallest people around. Grant is the only person in the entire village with blonde hair. The Amerindians, as they are called, are mostly short of stature, dark haired and dark eyed. It is almost impossible to tell their age. The adults are all wrinkled and leathery from working hard in the sun. They often have children early. Alice met a woman probably in her mid-thirties who has a son at the school who is around 16.
One lady came by and gave us some cassava bread. Cassava is the source of tapoica. The cassava root can be very dangerous because it contains cyanide. They have to grate it really finely, then squeeze it many times to get out the poison. Then they form it into cakes and bake it over a fire on a big round griddle. They either eat it soft then, or put it out in the sun to dry. We have seen some set theirs on the roof of a hut, and others use special nets hung out in the open. I think they have to scramble to take it inside when the rains come! The bread has little flavor of its own and a coarse texture. Most of the people subsist on this bread and a cooked green leaf called callaloo. This green is slightly trick, because it contains oxalate crystals and will make your mouth and throat burn for hours if you don’t cook it enough. It has very good flavor, much like spinach.
Grant is making friends with some of the local boys. A couple days ago when Steven went to check email, Grant went along and had a lot of fun throwing cars and little balls with the boys. After an hour there were around a dozen all clustered around playing. Steven has also been making friends at a distance with one of the boys. They play hiding games with umbrellas as he passes the boy’s house. All the kids are very cheerful and seem to like to smile and play.
Rain here is so much fun. It often comes down in torrents, and it is hard to hear each other under the zinc sheet roof. Before the hard rain comes, you can hear it in the distance, like a great mobile waterfall. Other times, like this morning, the rain is silent, without even a pitter-patter. You still get wet quickly, but without large drop from high up. It’s like the very air around you gets wet and just falls downward. In either kind, we are thankful to have a roof over our heads where we can stay dry, and long rubber boots and an umbrella when we have to travel.
We will have to tell you next time about the howler monkeys, little capuchin monkeys, the snakes and sloths that we haven’t seen yet, different fruits, and the hard work cutting monster grass that grows really fast. And biting bugs, allergies, coconuts, and the joys of having a plane come with no more than a sack of potatoes, some garlic, and a bottle of oil. Oh, and the river going up and down 12 feet or more. But those will have to wait.
Sabbaths are the time we miss home the most. We miss meeting people we haven’t seen all week and finding out how things are going in other people’s lives. Here we don’t feel like we know anyone. It is hard to relate to the people too, because we don’t know their culture or lifestyle very well yet. The people that we have met are kind and always greet us, and that helps a little. Alice also has made a couple friends walking into the village, but we don’t see them enough to feel that sort of friendship connection yet. The hardest thing is related to education–most of the people have a very limited vocabulary, so you can never be certain that you will be understood. Medical people will understand this if they think of trying to explain a complex physiological concept to someone whose limit of medical terminology is that learned in high school biology. So we are doing our best to learn about them rather than hope that they will learn about us. Alice wants to learn to make cassava bread (it’s pretty good if you toast it), and we both want to learn the local language, Arecuna, so we can understand everything said in church (a large portion is in the dialect without being translated) and speak to the older generation, many of whom know little more than a few words in English.
So as this Sabbath comes upon us, we think of you, our friends. We hope that you are each doing well, serving God where He has put you. Maybe some day He will call you here, or another place faraway. Don’t hesitate to go. Remember that you can be at peace only when you do the will of our Father in heaven. And in the mean time, do write us. Letters from home are so encouraging. Hearing what is happening in Sabbath School (thank you, Teresa!) and in the lives of our friends makes home seem a little closer. Just knowing that you care means so much. Thank you for your notes of encouragement.
May God bless you as you serve Him daily.
Steven, Alice, and Grant
PS = "I have attached some pictures from around. And some of the food we eat (you can see our last jar of peanut butter in one, now gone forever). You will see a strange spider (anyone know what it is?), the students at assembly time in the morning, us starting a garden, and some panoramas with the river. <s>When we have a better internet connection we will post more pictures with nice captions so that they make more sense.</s> Edit: added gallery!"