+++

date = "2014-12-31T01:00:00Z"
featured = "10"
title = "Bethany"

+++

We spent our first week in Guyana staying in Georgetown. Steven had to work several days on our 3-year work visas. This meant a lot of taxi rides, passport copies, and early trips to the government offices (most places only accept visitors from 8-11 am, and each is very slow). Alice finally got to visit some stores in town, and we had fun exploring the Bourda market (an open street market in town) together. After the first week we headed northwest to Bethany Medical Missionary College, where two Pathfinder Master Guides were presenting a jungle survival course. Also, two Amerindian Pathfinder Master Guides from Paruima were brought in to present some jungle-specific topics, as our survival instructors were only really familiar with ordinary US forests. There were about 40 people who came together, including teachers from 3 of our schools in Guyana, and pilots from Guyana, Peru, Bolivia, Brazil, and Venezuela. David Gates was present for most of the two weeks, and it was wonderful to get to know him personally and hear many of his famous stories first hand. He was a great mood lifter on the campus—always cheerful and kind, he collected a group around him everywhere he went. He played with Grant lots of times, and they became great friends.

The idea for this course started this summer at Osh Kosh as a training session for our pilots in South America on how to survive in emergency situations, such as a plane crash in the jungle. As plans developed and our instructors agreed to come down, they expanded it to include teachers and administrators of our Guyana schools as well.

We learned about fire and shelter building, knot tying, first aid, water purification, various equipment for survival, and other topics. Alice helped in the kitchen most of the time, while Steven attended the classes. It wasn’t just a survival course for the participants—those in the kitchen had it pretty rough, too, cooking for forty people with no decent cutlery and limited resources (it felt like we were in a mission food service version of “Cutthroat Kitchen”, never knowing what we were going to have to do without that day.) Most of the time there were just a few in the kitchen, but we did have a good time together. Alice was grateful for the friendship of the head cook, a massage therapist missionary working with her husband in the little village of Mashabo just a few miles from Bethany. Her cheerful spirit brightened Alice’s day many times! The Lord blessed our work in the kitchen, and we always had enough good food to eat. Praise the Lord!

We had to do all our laundry by hand, and that took up a good bit of Alice’s time, too. Even that could be fun, though—she did most of the wash in a little creek down the hill from our cabin, and it was cool and refreshing work. The water was about knee deep (nice clear running water), and her feet enjoyed the break after many hours in the hot kitchen.

The course lasted around two weeks, and then we returned to Georgetown for a few days to finalize our visas and prepare for flying home.