+++

date = "2015-01-02T01:00:00Z"
title = "Death"

+++

The next day was Friday. We hadn’t checked into the local police station yet, and needed to do it before the weekend. But between unpacking our bags, finding things we had left from the summer when we vacated in a hurry, and general travel weariness, it wasn’t until afternoon that we headed into the village, a 15 minute walk away. Along the path we stopped to greet several of our friends, who were surprised and glad to see us back. They told us they had been sure we wouldn’t return. We had left so suddenly that many of them did not know why we had to leave. Many other families have come to Paruima in the last two decades promising to stay for a long time, only to pack up after a month or year and never return. We thank God for the opportunity to come back again and serve these people, and pray that He will let us stay and build the trust necessary to really reach these people.

We finally got to the police station and registered ourselves. Then, having heard a rumor that Alice’s friend Narika was somewhere in the village, we started walking around to find her. As we were going along, there was some strange activity in front of an abandoned house ahead. It looked like some teenagers had been trying to break in. When we got closer, we realized it was Narika and two of her relatives, who had seen us and were trying to hide to surprise us! Nothing nefarious was happening after all (the house belonged to Narika’s brother, who is a missionary in another village). When we had to leave in such a hurry, Alice did not had time to say goodbye to her friend, and Narika was sure we would never come back. What a joy to be able to prove her wrong in the best possible way!

We learned that one of Narika’s cousins (and the relative of over half the village) had died the day before. He had been drinking in celebration of the new year, fallen into the river and drowned. There was a funeral up the river that evening for him, and we were just in time to catch the church boat and go. It seems God had planned for us to delay getting to the village so that we could learn about this funeral at the right time.

This is the second funeral we have attended in Paruima. It is difficult to write about these events because they feel so intensely personal. In a village this size, there are no strangers who die. Everyone feels the pain of loss. The service starts with singing hymns of hope and promise. This could be for half an hour or more. We sang most of the songs from the Early Advent section, and many others speaking to our hope in the resurrection. This time the boat that we rode in also carried an empty casket that had been built the same day. The dead body was at the burial site, hole freshly dug, waiting for that wooden box as a permanent bed until Jesus comes. As we sang, they moved the man into the casket, giving each time to take one last look at their friend and relative.

Death is so much closer here. No cremation service to turn your loved one into ashes, no funeral home to dress and paint smiles on their faces. Just a dead body, once living, still there, but without the breath of life. No shiny varnished casket, no brass hinges. Just rough boards and 16-penny nails.

Afterwards, a sermon was given in dialect. Then six or eight men lowered the casket into the ground. Here there is no shame in wailing. The dead man’s wife began to wail as we looked on in silence. We wish we could fix this, make it all go away like a bad dream. But this is the reality of life on this sinful planet. Each one present threw a handful of dirt down. Then men shoveled the dirt back in, taking turns as one got tired. We sang more hymns. We found ourselves weeping with our friends as we saw their pain and grief. Sharing in their sorrow has endeared these people to us much more than we can describe. A death in their family feels no less close than would a death in ours. These are our people.